Now that you're thinking about making your images
production ready, one of the first concerns you're probably
thinking about is how to keep all that extra, unnecessary
stuff out of these production images.
Things like dev dependencies, sample data,
test framework stuff, like anything that you just
don't need in production.
Some of the stuff might be for testing.
Some of this might be stuff you might use locally for
development. I mean, there's just a bunch of stuff in
there. You can solve most of these problems with
multistage images.
Your Dockerfile should be multistage in almost all
cases except for the most simple examples.
Of course, throughout this course, I've shown you
multistage in various ways.
Mostly, we've been solving small little problems with short
Dockerfiles. Now, we're getting into more real,
life like Dockerfiles where you're going to be using
both for dev and production.
Then even later in this section for testing.
The way that you really do that with Node is you
control the npm installations for production
and development separately. You can use npm
install with the --only option, and you
can use that for production and development.
But, you might be someone who's aware of the new
npm ci command which came out in the last few years.
That command is specifically designed for
build servers where you want to control everything,
specifically with the ;pcl file.
You really don't want to allow anything to change
in the package JSON to change your install.
So, you're going to use maybe the npm ci which
does install things faster, and it does guarantee that
it's using the package lock file in case there's any
discrepancies between the package and the package lock.
So, I think as we go forward, we're probably going to be
all using more and more of the npm ci command since that
does guarantee that we're using the exact
builds of our dependencies from the lock file.
The way that command determines whether it's using
production or development dependencies
is using the Node env environment variable.
You want to make sure that you're setting that and it's
consistent with what you want to do.
If you're in a build stage for production, you're going to
want to set that Node env to production.
If you're using the npm traditional install command,
you're going to want to use that --only with production,
and vice versa for the development part.
Let's go take a look at a sample that's in the course repo,
inside the multistage deps
directory.
For this example, I've given you a three-stage
Dockerfile, and it starts out with the base that just has
production dependencies.
You'll see that on line 3, I have given an alias
to this from line so it's called base, and we'll refer back
to that later.
Then I set some of the obvious stuff like the expose.
I set my Node env to production.
And my working directory.
This is, by the way, using the second
option for how to install Node modules.
So, I'm installing the Node modules up a directory in the
parent. So, it's a little more complicated.
Then I'm copying in my package file.
Then I'm using that npm ci command that's
relatively new. Then after that, doing a cache clean
to keep the image small.
Once that image is done, it's not
really meant for that particular stage, or image, that you
can technically build with the Docker build command.
That particular stage is not really meant to be used on its
own. It's designed to be used with the next two stages.
The first one is for development.
That one, we're giving an alias of dev on line 21
there. Then we're changing things to set the Node
environment to develop.
Setting a custom path for our Node modules in the bin
directory there. We're doing an npm install
of the development options on top of the
npm ci. The reason I went with npm install
here is that maybe for local development, you're not
specifically looking for the ci functionality,
and you're not wanting to guarantee the package in the
package lock matching.
You really just want to be able to get stuff done on local
development. This stage is only
going to be running on your local machine.
This is not a stage that would run, or be built,
inside of your Jenkins or continuous integration,
or anything for production.
In fact, you'll see in the stage 3, the next one here,
that it skips, it comes from base.
Which means it skips that second stage.
So, the third stage is built from the first stage.
If you can imagine your servers of where you would build
this production image, it will target
this third stage and then basically ignore,
or throw out, the second stage.
You'll also notice that I don't copy in the code.
I put a couple of comments in there for you so you can
check out why that is.
Because when we're doing local development, we're bind
mounting the code anyway inside the app directory.
So, we don't really need to copy it in just
for development purposes. If you go into the Docker Compose
file, you'll see that I do that there.
I map the volume.
I'm using a custom build target, and you'll
see there that it's pointing to the dev stage.
That means for local development, I'm only going to be
using that second stage.
I won't need the third stage for local development unless I
want to do a custom build command on my own.
We'll see later in this section how we're going to add
testing to this. How we're going to use it in ci for
potential production images and more.